readme.md, before:

# ChatterBot

This library allows developers to create language independent chat bots that
return responses to based on collections of known conversations.

[![Package Version](https://badge.fury.io/py/ChatterBot.png)](http://badge.fury.io/py/ChatterBot)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gunthercox/ChatterBot.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gunthercox/ChatterBot)
[![PyPi](https://pypip.in/download/ChatterBot/badge.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ChatterBot)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/gunthercox/ChatterBot.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/gunthercox/ChatterBot)

An example of typical input would be something like this:
> user: Good morning! How are you doing?  
> bot:  I am doing very well, thank you for asking.  
> user: Your welcome.  
> bot: Do you like hats?  

## Installation

This package can be installed using
```
pip install chatterbot
```

## Useage

Create a new chat bot  
**Note:** This object takes an optional parameter for the bot's name.
```
from chatterbot import ChatBot
chatbot = ChatBot("Ron Obvious")
```

Getting a response to input text
```
response = chatbot.get_response("Good morning!")
print(response)
```

Specify a defult location for conversation log files  
**Note:** The default log directory is `conversation_engrams/`.
```
chatbot.log_directory = "path/to/directory/"
```

Terminal mode (User and chat bot)
```
from chatterbot import Terminal
terminal = Terminal()
terminal.begin()
```

Have the chat bot talk with CleverBot
```
from chatterbot import TalkWithCleverbot
talk = TalkWithCleverbot()
talk.begin()
```

## Notes

This program is not designed to be an open source version of CleverBot.
Although this **Chat Bot** returns responces, the code here handels communication
much differently then [CleverBot](http://www.cleverbot.com) does.

Commit message:

Terminal now handles KeyboardInterrupt and EOF from ctrl+c and ctrl+d to end chat bot sessions.
This also fixes an issue where chatbot would reply after the exit()
command was issued. In addition the exit() command has been marked
for deprication in favor of using KeyboardInterrupt and EOF commands.

readme.md, after:

# ChatterBot

This library allows developers to create language independent chat bots that
return responses to based on collections of known conversations.

[![Package Version](https://badge.fury.io/py/ChatterBot.png)](http://badge.fury.io/py/ChatterBot)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gunthercox/ChatterBot.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gunthercox/ChatterBot)
[![PyPi](https://pypip.in/download/ChatterBot/badge.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ChatterBot)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/gunthercox/ChatterBot.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/gunthercox/ChatterBot)

An example of typical input would be something like this:
> user: Good morning! How are you doing?  
> bot:  I am doing very well, thank you for asking.  
> user: Your welcome.  
> bot: Do you like hats?  

## Installation

This package can be installed using
```
pip install chatterbot
```

## Useage

Create a new chat bot  
**Note:** This object takes an optional parameter for the bot's name.
```
from chatterbot import ChatBot
chatbot = ChatBot("Ron Obvious")
```

Getting a response to input text
```
response = chatbot.get_response("Good morning!")
print(response)
```

Specify a defult location for conversation log files  
**Note:** The default log directory is `conversation_engrams/`.
```
chatbot.log_directory = "path/to/directory/"
```

Terminal mode (User and chat bot)
```
from chatterbot import Terminal
terminal = Terminal()
terminal.begin()
```

Have the chat bot talk with CleverBot
```
from chatterbot import TalkWithCleverbot
talk = TalkWithCleverbot()
talk.begin()
```

## Notes

Sample conversations for training the chatbot can be downloaded
from https://gist.github.com/gunthercox/6bde8279615b9b638f71

This program is not designed to be an open source version of CleverBot.
Although this **Chat Bot** returns responces, the code here handels communication
much differently then [CleverBot](http://www.cleverbot.com) does.
