README.md, before:

![Chatterbot: Machine learning in Python](https://i.imgur.com/b3SCmGT.png)

# ChatterBot

ChatterBot is a machine-learning based conversational dialog engine build in
Python which makes it possible to generate responses based on collections of
known conversations. The language independent design of ChatterBot allows it
to be trained to speak any language.

[![Package Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/chatterbot.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/chatterbot/)
[![Requirements Status](https://requires.io/github/gunthercox/ChatterBot/requirements.svg?branch=master)](https://requires.io/github/gunthercox/ChatterBot/requirements/?branch=master)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gunthercox/ChatterBot.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gunthercox/ChatterBot)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/chatterbot/badge/?version=stable)](http://chatterbot.readthedocs.io/en/stable/?badge=stable)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/gunthercox/ChatterBot.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/gunthercox/ChatterBot)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/gunthercox/ChatterBot/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/gunthercox/ChatterBot)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/chatterbot/Lobby](https://badges.gitter.im/chatterbot/Lobby.svg)](https://gitter.im/chatterbot/Lobby?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_content=badge)

An example of typical input would be something like this:

> **user:** Good morning! How are you doing?  
> **bot:**  I am doing very well, thank you for asking.  
> **user:** You're welcome.  
> **bot:** Do you like hats?  

## How it works

An untrained instance of ChatterBot starts off with no knowledge of how to communicate. Each time a user enters a statement, the library saves the text that they entered and the text that the statement was in response to. As ChatterBot receives more input the number of responses that it can reply and the accuracy of each response in relation to the input statement increase. The program selects the closest matching response by searching for the closest matching known statement that matches the input, it then returns the most likely response to that statement based on how frequently each response is issued by the people the bot communicates with.

## Installation

This package can be installed from [PyPi](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ChatterBot) by running:

```
pip install chatterbot
```

## Basic Usage

```
from chatterbot import ChatBot

chatbot = ChatBot(
    'Ron Obvious',
    trainer='chatterbot.trainers.ChatterBotCorpusTrainer'
)

# Train based on the english corpus
chatbot.train("chatterbot.corpus.english")

# Get a response to an input statement
chatbot.get_response("Hello, how are you today?")
```

# Training data

ChatterBot comes with a data utility module that can be used to train chat bots.
At the moment there is three languages, English, Spanish and Portuguese training data in this module. Contributions
of additional training data or training data in other languages would be greatly
appreciated. Take a look at the data files in the
[chatterbot-corpus](https://github.com/gunthercox/chatterbot-corpus)
package if you are interested in contributing.

```
# Train based on the english corpus
chatbot.train("chatterbot.corpus.english")

# Train based on english greetings corpus
chatbot.train("chatterbot.corpus.english.greetings")

# Train based on the english conversations corpus
chatbot.train("chatterbot.corpus.english.conversations")
```

**Corpus contributions are welcome! Please make a pull request.**

# [Documentation](https://chatterbot.readthedocs.io/)

View the [documentation](https://chatterbot.readthedocs.io/)
for ChatterBot on Read the Docs.

To build the documentation yourself using [Sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/), run:

```
sphinx-build -b html docs/ build/
```

# Examples

For examples, see the [examples](https://github.com/gunthercox/ChatterBot/tree/master/examples)
directory in this project's git repository.

There is also an example [Django project using ChatterBot](https://github.com/gunthercox/ChatterBot/tree/master/examples), as well as an example [Flask project using ChatterBot](https://github.com/chamkank/flask-chatterbot).

# History

See release notes for changes https://github.com/gunthercox/ChatterBot/releases

# Development pattern for contributors

1. [Create a fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) of
   the [main ChatterBot repository](https://github.com/gunthercox/ChatterBot) on GitHub.
2. Make your changes in a branch named something different from `master`, e.g. create
   a new branch `my-pull-request`.
3. [Create a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/).
4. Please follow the [Python style guide for PEP-8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/).
5. Use the projects [built-in automated testing](https://chatterbot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/testing.html)
   to help make sure that your contribution is free from errors.

# License

ChatterBot is licensed under the [BSD 3-clause license](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause).

Commit message:

Added alternative installation method
python setup.py install

README.md, after:

![Chatterbot: Machine learning in Python](https://i.imgur.com/b3SCmGT.png)

# ChatterBot

ChatterBot is a machine-learning based conversational dialog engine build in
Python which makes it possible to generate responses based on collections of
known conversations. The language independent design of ChatterBot allows it
to be trained to speak any language.

[![Package Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/chatterbot.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/chatterbot/)
[![Requirements Status](https://requires.io/github/gunthercox/ChatterBot/requirements.svg?branch=master)](https://requires.io/github/gunthercox/ChatterBot/requirements/?branch=master)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gunthercox/ChatterBot.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gunthercox/ChatterBot)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/chatterbot/badge/?version=stable)](http://chatterbot.readthedocs.io/en/stable/?badge=stable)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/gunthercox/ChatterBot.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/gunthercox/ChatterBot)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/gunthercox/ChatterBot/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/gunthercox/ChatterBot)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/chatterbot/Lobby](https://badges.gitter.im/chatterbot/Lobby.svg)](https://gitter.im/chatterbot/Lobby?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_content=badge)

An example of typical input would be something like this:

> **user:** Good morning! How are you doing?  
> **bot:**  I am doing very well, thank you for asking.  
> **user:** You're welcome.  
> **bot:** Do you like hats?  

## How it works

An untrained instance of ChatterBot starts off with no knowledge of how to communicate. Each time a user enters a statement, the library saves the text that they entered and the text that the statement was in response to. As ChatterBot receives more input the number of responses that it can reply and the accuracy of each response in relation to the input statement increase. The program selects the closest matching response by searching for the closest matching known statement that matches the input, it then returns the most likely response to that statement based on how frequently each response is issued by the people the bot communicates with.

## Installation

This package can be installed from [PyPi](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ChatterBot) by running:

```
pip install chatterbot
```

Alternatively, you can use the following command to install this package.
```
python setup.py install
```
Make sure to cd into ChatterBot directory before performing the above command.

## Basic Usage

```
from chatterbot import ChatBot

chatbot = ChatBot(
    'Ron Obvious',
    trainer='chatterbot.trainers.ChatterBotCorpusTrainer'
)

# Train based on the english corpus
chatbot.train("chatterbot.corpus.english")

# Get a response to an input statement
chatbot.get_response("Hello, how are you today?")
```

# Training data

ChatterBot comes with a data utility module that can be used to train chat bots.
At the moment there is three languages, English, Spanish and Portuguese training data in this module. Contributions
of additional training data or training data in other languages would be greatly
appreciated. Take a look at the data files in the
[chatterbot-corpus](https://github.com/gunthercox/chatterbot-corpus)
package if you are interested in contributing.

```
# Train based on the english corpus
chatbot.train("chatterbot.corpus.english")

# Train based on english greetings corpus
chatbot.train("chatterbot.corpus.english.greetings")

# Train based on the english conversations corpus
chatbot.train("chatterbot.corpus.english.conversations")
```

**Corpus contributions are welcome! Please make a pull request.**

# [Documentation](https://chatterbot.readthedocs.io/)

View the [documentation](https://chatterbot.readthedocs.io/)
for ChatterBot on Read the Docs.

To build the documentation yourself using [Sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/), run:

```
sphinx-build -b html docs/ build/
```

# Examples

For examples, see the [examples](https://github.com/gunthercox/ChatterBot/tree/master/examples)
directory in this project's git repository.

There is also an example [Django project using ChatterBot](https://github.com/gunthercox/ChatterBot/tree/master/examples), as well as an example [Flask project using ChatterBot](https://github.com/chamkank/flask-chatterbot).

# History

See release notes for changes https://github.com/gunthercox/ChatterBot/releases

# Development pattern for contributors

1. [Create a fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) of
   the [main ChatterBot repository](https://github.com/gunthercox/ChatterBot) on GitHub.
2. Make your changes in a branch named something different from `master`, e.g. create
   a new branch `my-pull-request`.
3. [Create a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/).
4. Please follow the [Python style guide for PEP-8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/).
5. Use the projects [built-in automated testing](https://chatterbot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/testing.html)
   to help make sure that your contribution is free from errors.

# License

ChatterBot is licensed under the [BSD 3-clause license](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause).
