=========================================
How to create a new filter for ChatterBot
=========================================

This is the basic outline of the code that your filter will need to follow.
Each filter should inherit from ChatterBot's `Filter` class and implement a
method called `filter_selection`. Everything else that your filter does is
up to you.

.. code-block:: python

   from chatterbot.filters import Filter

   class MyFilter(Filter):

       def filter_selection(self, chatterbot):
           # ...
           return query

Filter Queries
==============

Filters use a storage adapter's query object to build a query that the adapter
can evaluate. The available query methods currently are:

statement_text_not_in(statements)
---------------------------------

This query method takes a list of statement text values and returns the
current query with the added constraint that any statements returned cannot
exist in the list specified.

statement_response_list_contains(statement_text)
------------------------------------------------

This query method takes a single statement text value and returns the
current query with the added constraint that any statements returned
must contain the specified text as a response.

statement_response_list_equals(response_list)
---------------------------------------------

This query method takes a list of statement text values and returns the
current query with the added constraint that any statements returned must
have an exactly matching list of response values.

Filter Support
==============

Not all storage adapters support filters. If a storage adapter does not support
filters, then queries generated by filters will be ignored when using that
storage adapter.

A storage adapter only supports filters if it supports querying.
You can tell if a storage adapter supports querying by checking
if its `adapter_supports_queries` property is set to true.
